Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2019-03-12T16:52:46+08:00

====== C ======
Created Tuesday 12 March 2019

calibration data
data that will be applied after the software build in the development process
EXAMPLE Parameters (e.g. value for low idle speed, engine characteristic diagrams); vehicle specific parameters (adaptation values) (e.g. limit stop for throttle value); variant coding (e.g. country code, left-hand/right-hand steering).
NOTE Calibration data cannot contain executable or interpretable code.

candidate
item or element whose definition and conditions of use are identical to, or have a very high degree of commanality with, an item or element that is already released and in operation.
NOTE This definition applies where candidate is used in the context of a proven in use argument.

cascading failure
failure of an element of an item causing another element or elements of the same item to fail
NOTE Cascading failures are dependent failures that are not common cause failures. See Figure 2, Failure A.
{{./pasted_image.png}}

common cause failure
CCF
failure of two or more elements of an item resulting from a single specific event or root cause
NOTE Common cause failures are dependent failures that are not cascading failures. See Figure 3.
{{./pasted_image001.png}}

component
non-system level element that is logically and technically separable and is comprised of more than one hardware part or of one or more software units.
NOTE A component is a part of a system.

configuration data
data that is assigned during software build and that controls the software build process
EXAMPLE Pre-processor instructions; software build scripts (e.g. XML configuration files).
NOTE 1 Configuration data cannot contain executable or interpretable code.
NOTE 2 Configuration data controls the software build. Only code, or data selected by configuration data can be included in the executable code.

confirmation measure
confirmation review, audit or assessment concerning functional safety

confirmation review
confirmation that a work product meets the requirements of ISO 26262 with the required level of independence of the reviewer
NOTE 1 A complete list of confirmation reviews is given in ISO 26262-2
NOTE 2 The goal of confirmation reviews is to ensure compliance with ISO 26262.

controllability
ability to avoid a specified harm or damage through the timely reactions of the persons involved, possibly with support from external measures.
NOTE 1 Persons involved can include the driver, passengers or persons in the vicinity of the vehicle's exterior.
NOTE 2 The parameter C in hazard analysis and risk assessment represents the potential for controllability.






































