Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2019-03-19T17:26:40+08:00

====== D ======
Created Tuesday 19 March 2019

dedicated measure
measure to ensure the failure rate claimed in the evaluation of the probability of violation of safety goals.
EXAMPLE Design feature [such as hardware part over-design (e.g. electrical or thermal stress rating) or physical separation (e.g. spacing of contacts on a printed circuit board)]; special sample test of incoming material to reduce the risk of occurrence of failure modes which contribute to the violation of safety goals; burn-in testl dedicated control plan.

degradation
strategy for providing safety by design after the occurrence of failures.
NOTE Degradation can include reduced functionality, reduced performance, or both reduced functionality and performance.

dependent failures
failures whose probability of simultaneous or successive occurrence cannot be expressed as the simple product of the unconditional probabilities of each of them
NOTE 1 Dependent failures A and B can be characterized when
PAB ≠ PA x PB
where
PAB is the probability of the simultaneous occurrence of failure A and failure B;
PA is the probability of the occurrence of failure A;
PB is the probability of the occurrence of failure B;
NOTE 2 Dependent failures include common cause failure and cascading failures.

detected fault
fault whose presence is detected within a prescribed time by a safety mechanism that prevents the fault from being latent
EXAMPLE The fault can be detected by a dedicated safety mechanism (e.g. detection of the error and notifying the driver via an alerting device on the instrument panel) as defined in the functional safety concept.

development interface agreement
DIA
agreement between customer and supplier in which the responsibilities for activities, evidence or work products to be exchanged by each party are specified.

diagnostic coverage
proportion of the hardware element failure rate that is detected or controlled by the implemented safety mechanisms
NOTE 1 Diagnostic coverage can be assessed with regard to residual faults or with regard to latent multiplepoint faults that might occur in a hardware element.
NOTE 2 The difinition can be represented in terms of the equations given in ISO 26262-5.
NOTE 3 Safety mechanisms implemented at different levels in the architecture can be considered.

diagnostic test interval
amount of time between the executions of online diagnostic tests by a safety mechanism.

distributed development
development of an item or element with development responsibility divided between the customer and supplier(s) for the entire item or element, or for subsystesms.
NOTE Customer and supplier are roles of the cooperating parties.

diversity
different solutions satisfying the same requirement with the aim of independence.
EXAMPLE Diverse programming; diverse hardware.
NOTE Diversity does not guarantee independence, but addresses certain types of common causes failures.

dual-point failure
failure resulting from the combination of two independent faults that leads directly to the violation of a safety goal.
NOTE 1 Dual-point failures are multiple-point failures of order 2.
NOTE 2 Dual-point failures that are addressed in ISO26262 include those where one fault affects a safety-related element and another fault affects the corresponding safety mechanism intended to achieve or maintain a safe state.
NOTE 3 For a dual-point failure to directly violate a safety goal, the presence of both independent faults is necessary, i.e. the violation of a safety goal due to a combination of a residual fault with a safe fault is not considered a dual-point failure since the residual fault leads to a violation of a safety goal with or without the presence of a second independent fault.

dual-point fault
individual fault that, in combination with another independent fault, leads to a dual-point failure
NOTE 1 A dual-point fault can only be recognized after the identification of dual-point failure, e.g. from cut set analysis of a fault tree.
NOTE 2 See also multiple-point fault





































