Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2019-03-20T16:41:37+08:00

====== F ======
Created Wednesday 20 March 2019

failure
termination of the ability of an element, to perform a function as required
NOTE Incorrect specification is a source of failure.

failure mode
manner in which an element or an item fails

failure rate
probability density of failure divided by probability of survival for a hardware element.
NOTE The failure rate is assumed to be constant and is generally denoted as "λ".

fault
abnormal condition that can cause an element or an item to fail
NOTE 1 Permanent, intermittent and transient faults (especially soft-errors) are considered.
NOTE 2 An intermittent fault occurs time and time again, then disappears. This type of fault can occur when a component is on the verge of breaking down or, for example, due to a glitch in a switch. Some systematic faults (e.g. timing marginalities) could lead to intermittent faults.

fault model
representation of failure modes resulting from faults.
NOTE Fault models are generally based on field experience or reliability handbooks.

fault reaction time
time-span from the detection of a fault to reaching the safe state.
See Figure 4.
{{./pasted_image.png?width=700}}

fault tolerant time interval
time-span in which a fault or faults can be present in a system before a hazardous event occurs.

field data
data obtained from the use of an item or element including cumulative operating hours, all failures and in-service anomalies
NOTE Field data normally comes from customer use.

formal notation
description technique that has both its syntax and semantics completely defined
EXAMPLE Z notation (Zed); NuSMV (symbolic model checker); Prototype Verification System (PVS); Vienna Development Method (VDM).

formal verification
method used to prove the correctness of a system against the specification in formal notation of its required behavior

freedom from interference
absence of cascading failures between two or more elements that could lead to the violation of a safety requirement
EXAMPLE 1 Element 1 is free of interference from element 2 if no failure of element 2 can cause element 1 to fail.
EXAMPLE 2 Element 3 interferes with element 4 if there exists a failure of element 3 that causes element 4 to fail.

functional concept
specification of the intended functions and their interactions necessary to achieve the desired behaviour
NOTE The functional concept is developed during the concept phase.

functional safety
absense of unreasonable risk due to hazards caused by malfunctioning behaviour of E/E systems

functional safety concept
specification of the functional safety requirements, with associated information, their allocation to architectural elements, and their interaction necessary to achieve the safety goals.

functional safety requirement
specification of implementation-independent safety behaviour, or implementation-independent safety measure, including its safety-related attributes
NOTE 1 A functional safety requirement can be a safety requirement implemented by a safety-related E/E system, or by a safety-related system of other technologies, in order to achieve or maintain a safe state for the item taking into account a determined hazardous event.
NOTE 2 The functional safety requirements might be specified independently of the technology used in the concept phase, of product development.
NOTE 3 Safety-related attributes include information about ASIL.






























