Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2019-03-21T16:46:49+08:00

====== I ======
Created Thursday 21 March 2019

independence
absence of dependent failures between two or more elements that could lead to the violation of a safety requirement, or organizational separation of the parties performing an action
NOTE By definition, ASIL decomposition or confirmation measures include requirements on independence.

independent failures
failures whose probability of simultaneous or successive occurrence can be expressed as the simple product of their unconditional probabilities

informal notation
description technique that does not have its syntax completely defined
EXAMPLE Description in figure or diagram.
NOTE An incomplete syntax definition implies that the semantics are also not completely defined.

informal verification
verification methods not considered as semi-formal or formal verification techniques
EXAMPLE Design review; model review.

inheritance
passing attributes of requirements in an unchanged manner to the next level of detail during the development process

initial ASIL
ASIL resulting from the hazard analysis or the ASIL resulting from a preceding ASIL decomposition.
NOTE The initial ASIL is the starting point for ASIL decomposition or further ASIL decomposition.

inspection
examination of work products, following a formal procedure, in order to detect anomalies
NOTE 1 Inspection is a means of verification.
NOTE 2 Inspection differs from testing in that it does not normally involve the operation of the associated item or element.
NOTE 3 Any anomalies that are detected are usually addressed by rework, followed by re-inspection of the reworked products.
NOTE 4 A formal procedure normally includes a previously defined procedure, checklist, moderator and review of the results.

intended functionality
behaviour specified for an item, system, or elment excluding safety mechanisms

item
system or array of systems to implement a function at the vehicle level, to which ISO 26262 is applied

item development
complete process of implementing an item
































