Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2019-03-25T14:16:55+08:00

====== S ======
Created Monday 25 March 2019

safe fault
fault whose occurrence will not significantly increase the probability of violation of a safety goal
NOTE 1 As shown in ISO 26262-5:2011, Annex B, both non-safety and safety-related elements can have safe faults.
NOTE 2 Single-point faults, residual faults and dual-point faults do not constitute safe faults.
NOTE 3 Unless shown relevant in the safety concept, multiple-point faults with higher order than 2 can be considered as safe faults

safe state
operating mode of an item without an unreasonable level of risk
EXAMPLE Intended operating mode; degraded operating mode; switched-off mode.

safety
absense of unreasonable risk

safety activity
activity performed in one or more subphases of the safety lifecycle

safety architecture
set of elements and their interaction to fulfil the safety requirements

safety case
argument that the safety requirements for an item are complete and satisfied by evidence compiled from work products of the safety activities during development
NOTE Safety case can be extended to cover safety issues beyond the scope of ISO 26262

safety culture
policy and strategy used within an organization to support the development, production and operation of safety-related systems
NOTE See ISO 26262-2:2011, Annex B.

safety goal
top-level safety requirement as a result of the hazard analysis and risk assessment
NOTE One safety goal can be related to several hazards, and several safety goals can be related to a single hazard.

safety manager
role filled by the person responsible for the functional safety management during the item development

safety measure
activity or technical solution to avoid or control systematic failures and to detect random hardware failures or control random hardware failures, or mitigate their harmful effects
NOTE 1 Examples of safety measures are FMEA and software without the use of global variables.
NOTE 2 Safety measures include safety mechanisms

safety mechanism
technical solution implemented by E/E functions or elements, or by other technologies, to detect faults or control in order to achieve or maintain a safe state
NOTE 1 Safety mechanisms are implemented within the item to prevent faults from leading to single-point failures or to reduce residual failures and to prevent faults from being latent.
NOTE 2 The safety mechanism is either
a) able to transition to, or maintain, the item in a safe state, or
b) able to alert the driver such that the driver is expected to control the effect of the failure
as defined in the functional safety concept.

safety plan
plan to manage and guide the execution of the safet activities of a project including dates, milestones, tasks, deliverables, responsibilities and resources

safet-related element
element that has the potential to contribute to the violation of or achievement of a safety goal
NOTE Fail-safe elements are considered safety-related if they can contribute to at least one safety goal.

safety-related function
function that has the potential to contribute to the violation of a safety goal

safety-related special characteristic
characteristic of an item or an element, or else their production process, for which reasonably foreseeable deviation could impact, contribute to, or cause any potential reduction of functional safety
NOTE 1 Term special characteristics are defined in ISO/TS 16949.
NOTE 2 Safet-related special characteristics are derived during the development phase of the item or the elements.
EXAMPLE Temperature range; expiration date; fastening torque; production tolerance; configuration.

safety validation
assurance, based on examination and tests, that the safety goals are sufficient and have been achieved
NOTE ISO 26262-4 provides suitable methods for validation.

semi-formal notation
description technique whose syntax is completely defined but whose semantics definition can be incomplete
EXAMPLE System Analysis and Design Techniques (SADT); Unified Modeling Language (UML)

semi-formal verification
verification that is based on a description given in semi-formal notation
EXAMPLE Use of test vectors generated from a semi-formal model to test that the system behaviour matches the model.

service note
documentation of safety information to be considered when performing maintenance procedures for the item
EXAMPLE Safety-related characteristics; safety operation that can be required.

severity
estimate of the extent of harm to one or more individuals that can occur in a potentially hazardous situation.
NOTE The parameter "S" in hazard analysis and risk assessment represents the potential severity of harm.

single-point failure
failure that results from a single-point fault and that leads directly to the violation of a safety goal
NOTE 1 A single-point failure is dquivalent to a residual failure for an element with 0% diagnostic coverage.
NOTE 2 If at least one safety mechanism is defined for an HW element (e.g. a wathdog for a microcontroller), then no faults of the considered hardware element are single-point faults.

single-point fault
fault in an element that is not covered by a safety mechanism and that leads directly to the violation of a safety goal
NOTE See also single-point failure

software component
one or more software units

software tool
computer program used in the development of  an item or element

software unit
atomic level software component of the software architecture that can be subjected to stand-alone testing.

special-purpose vehicle
vehicle intended to perform a function that requires special body arrangements, equipment or both
EXAMPLE Motor caravan; armoured vehicle; ambulance; hearse; trailer caravan; mobile crane
NOTE ECE TRANS/WP.29/78/Rev.1/Amend.2 provides definitions for special-purpose vehicles.

statement coverage
percentage of statements within the software that have been executed

subphase
subdivision of a stage in the safety lifecycle that is specified in a distinct clause of ISO 26262
EXAMPLE Hazard analysis and risk assessment is a subphase of the safety lifecycle specified in ISO 26262-3:2011, Clause 7.

system
set of elements that relates at least a sensor, a controller and an actuator with one another
NOTE 1 The related sensor or actuator can be included in the system, or can be external to the system.
NOTE 2 An element of a system can also be another system.

systematic failure
failure, related in a deterministic way to a certain cause, that can only be eliminated by a change of the design or of the manufacturing process, operational procedure, documentation or other relevant factors

systematic fault
fault whose failure is manifested in a deterministic way tha can only be prevented by applying process or design measures






























